Performing Footprinting Through Web Services

Course: Certified Ethical Hacker v12
Scope / Note: Only perform these techniques against systems and people you own or have explicit written permission to test.

Overview

This hands‑on exercise demonstrates passive reconnaissance using web services and OSINT tools. The original lab uses Intellipaat as the example target; replace with an authorized target of your choice.

Task 1 — Finding the Company’s Domains and Subdomains Using Netcraft

Goal: Identify domains, subdomains, hosting history, technology stack and network information.

Steps

Log in to the Windows 11 VM.

Launch a browser.

Navigate to https://www.netcraft.com.

Open the menu (top-right) → Resources → Research Tools.

Click Site Report (“What’s that site running?”).

Enter the target website URL (e.g., https://www.intellipaat.com) and click LOOK UP.

Review the Site Report for:

Background and company info

Hosting history

Infrastructure and technologies

Network and netblock data

In the Network section, click the domain link to view discovered subdomains and associated netblocks/OS details.

Document discovered subdomains and relevant hosting details for later analysis.

Task 2 — Gathering Personal Information Using PeekYou

Goal: Collect publicly available personal information that could be used in social engineering or phishing.

Steps

Log in to the Windows 11 VM.

Launch a browser and go to https://www.peekyou.com.

In the search form enter a person’s First Name and Last Name and, if available, select Location (example used: Satya Nadella / Washington, DC).

Click Search.

Inspect the results for public records, background data, possible email addresses, contact info or address history.

Use View Full Report (if present) for additional details.

Record findings and consider sensitivity — do not publish personal, private, or sensitive data without consent.

Task 3 — Gathering an Email List Using theHarvester

Goal: Harvest email addresses and public data for the target from multiple sources.

Steps (Parrot Security VM)

Boot the Parrot Security VM and log in.

Open a Terminal (MATE terminal).

Elevate to root (if required):

sudo su


Run theHarvester (example using Baidu as source for up to 200 results):

theHarvester -d microsoft.com -l 200 -b baidu


-d specifies the domain

-l sets the limit of results

-b selects the data source (e.g., baidu, google, bing, linkedin, etc.)

Review and export the results (theHarvester supports output options) for later validation.

Validate harvested addresses before using them in any outreach or testing; misuse may be illegal.

Task 4 — Gathering Information Using Deep and Dark Web Searching

Goal: Search Tor/onion and dark web resources for relevant mentions, threat actor chatter, or leaked data.

Steps

Log in to the Windows 11 VM.

Launch Tor Browser from the Tor Browser shortcut (e.g., C:\Users\Admin\Desktop\Tor Browser\Start Tor Browser).

When Tor connects, use the browser for anonymous access to the dark web.

As preliminary research, compare surface‑web results by searching the same query in a normal browser (Edge/Chrome) and in Tor to note differences in results and relevance.

Use Tor to search for targeted keywords (e.g., “hackers for hire”, company name + “leak”, company name + “pastebin”) and document relevant findings.

Note: Dark web searching can surface illegal marketplaces and sensitive content — do not engage in illegal activities. Record findings carefully and escalate appropriately.

Task 5 — Determining Target OS Through Passive Footprinting (Censys)

Goal: Use public internet‑scan data to infer host OS and other metadata via passive lookups.

Steps

Launch a browser (Firefox used in lab).

Go to https://search.censys.io/?q=.

In Censys search, enter the target website or host (e.g., www.eccouncil.org) and run the query.

Click a host IP from the results to view the host page.

Under Basic Information or host details, review discovered OS, services, and banners (example: OS may be listed as Ubuntu).

Document IPs, OS guesses, and service versions for use in later authorized assessments.
