Performing Footprinting Through Social Networking Sites

Course: Certified Ethical Hacker v12
Scope / Note: Only perform these techniques against systems and people you own or have explicit written permission to test.

Overview

This hands‑on exercise demonstrates how to gather personnel and organization-related information from social networks and public profiles using OSINT tools. The lab uses Intellipaat as an example target; replace with an authorized target of your choice.

Task 1 — Gathering Employees' Information from LinkedIn Using theHarvester

Goal: Harvest names, email patterns and employee information exposed via LinkedIn.

Steps (Parrot Security VM)

Boot the Parrot Security VM and log in.

Open the MATE terminal.

Elevate privileges if required:

sudo su


Run theHarvester against the target domain using LinkedIn as the source:

theHarvester -d eccouncil.org -l 200 -b linkedin


-d domain to search

-l number of results (limit)

-b data source (linkedin)

Review results for employee names, possible email patterns, and LinkedIn profile links. Validate findings before any contact or testing.

Task 2 — Gathering Personal Information from Various Social Networking Sites Using Sherlock

Goal: Locate user accounts across many social platforms to build an aggregate profile for OSINT and social‑engineering defense analysis.

Steps (Parrot Security VM / local machine where Sherlock is installed)

Log in to the Parrot Security VM and open a terminal (or use your local environment with Python3 and Sherlock installed).

Run Sherlock against a username or full name:

python3 sherlock.py "satya nadella"


(Sherlock will enumerate many social sites and return URLs where the name/username exists.)

Scroll through the results to collect relevant profile URLs.

Inspect public profiles for DOB, employment history, location info, contact links, and other public details that could be useful for social engineering or targeted phishing tests.

Document all findings with timestamps and source links.

Risk, Ethics & Best Practices

Authorization: Only collect personal data for authorized assessments. Do not misuse harvested data.

Minimize Harm: Do not attempt to access private accounts or send unsolicited messages. Use gathered data only for defensive assessments or sanctioned engagements.

Recordkeeping: For every finding note: date/time, tool, query, URL, and why it’s relevant.

Sanitization for Publication: Redact or anonymize personal information and screenshots before adding to public repositories or portfolios.

Validation: OSINT data can be noisy — validate identities before drawing conclusions.
